Add Code section to Contributions Doc (#1905)
RoboJackets/robocup-software: docs/source/contributing.rst

Contributing
============
This guide targets new members who are keen on contributing to the
project. This guide will focus on the overall picture of effective coding and
contributions as well as writing documentation. It is not intended to be a technical guide. Please refer to the tutorial docs for initial understanding of the technical skillset needed for RoboCup.

If you don't have an overall idea of what the competition is like and what its
goals are, you can brush up at the `RoboCup Wiki <http://wiki.robojackets.org/w/RoboCup>`_.

Code
----

> To contribute to the codebase, you must know how to use Git, create Pull Requests, and document with docstrings. The following sections will give you some basic information about each of these, as well as addition resources to learn more about the topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To contribute to the codebase, you must know how to use Git, create Pull Requests, and document with docstrings. The following sections will give you some basic information about each of these, as well as additional resources to learn more about the topics.
```

Git
~~~

We use Git as our version control system (if you already know git, you can skip

> ahead). A Version control system allows many people to code for the same project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ahead). A version control system allows many people to code for the same project
```

.. figure:: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/basic-branching-1.png
   :width: 80%
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of Master Branch

   Example of Master Branch

Our master branch which is named ``ros2`` can be found `here <https://github.com/RoboJackets/robocup-software>`_.
The code in latest ``ros2`` is always neat and untouched. It can always compile. When you first clone our codebase from git to view the simulator and soccer, you are using the code in ``ros2``. It is in all respects, the master copy from which all other contributions are derived. Even if you are eventually given permission to write to master, you should never do so.

**Branches**

Branches are like pieces of scrap paper. You can use them to organize your work
and solutions to the test questions. You should not have work regarding
different problems mixed across several pieces of paper; you may get your
progress confused. You should use one (or several) peices of paper for each
problem you are trying to solve, but should never use one sheet for multiple
questions.

.. figure:: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/basic-branching-2.png
   :width: 80%
   :align: center
   :alt: Creating new branch

>    Creating new branch

Reviewer: I don't love this image choice--it only shows the new iss53 branch pointing to the same commit as the master branch. I feel like any of these images from further down are more instructive:

![Screenshot from 2022-06-17 11-18-20](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30275369/174327840-03541a29-b51a-4821-baa5-0bc6988f3b28.png)
![Screenshot from 2022-06-17 11-18-07](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30275369/174327841-7f9de4c4-1170-422b-91ee-df16454bd030.png)
![Screenshot from 2022-06-17 11-17-53](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30275369/174327842-a1d70ccd-743d-43de-b6b0-14797cea1df8.png)

Reviewer: Also, the "C0" "C1" etc might be confusing to people who don't know what a "commit" is, can you work that into an explanation somewhere? It can be brief and you can reference the tutorial docs as somewhere members can go to learn more about git add/commit (since the start of those docs teach those basics)

the code makes it into the main repository. This involves several steps. First,
any changes others have made in the team's repository need to be merged into
your code.

.. tip::

    If the work done on the branch stretches over a long period, it is good practice to frequently merge the master branch into your personal branch.

If there are any conflics Git can't resolve automatically, it is
your job to `resolve <https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-from-the-command-line>`_ those errors. By merging changes into your contribution, rather than the other way around, you ensure the act of bringing your code into the team's repository will go smoothly. This helps when another member of the team reviews your code as well.

Now that you have a merged branch, you should push the branch to your GitHub.
From GitHub, you can make a `pull request <https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/>`_ from your repository against the team's repository.

.. note::

    A link to a edit a pull request is also automatically generated when the branch is pushed in the command line. You can use this link to create the pull request.

> Pull Requests(PR)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull Requests (PR)
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Pull requests are how we are able to review each others changes to the master branch. It helps you communicate your changes to ``ros2``. You can choose to create a pull request that is ready for review or draft a pull request. These draft PRs do not need to have reviewers assigned nor can it be merged into the master branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull requests are how we are able to review each others changes to the master branch. It helps you communicate your changes to ``ros2``. You can choose to create a pull request that is ready for review or draft a pull request. Draft PRs must be marked as "ready for review" before they can be merged into the master branch.
```

> Once your PR is ready for review, assign a team member to review the PR. This will notify the team member that you are ready to have your contribution reviewed. Requirements for pull request standards are listed in several sections below. The team member may ask that you fix or touch up some things before the request is accepted. This is normal and common. Once the pull request meets standards, the older member will approve it, and you changes will be complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your PR is ready for review, assign an older member to review the PR. This will notify them that you are ready to have your contribution reviewed. Requirements for pull request standards are below. The team member may ask that you fix or touch up some things before the request is accepted. This is normal and common. Once the pull request meets standards, the older member will approve it, and your changes can be merged (provided they pass the CI checks, which is explained below).
```

Keep in mind, you can have several branches at once. If you need to fix a bug
for an existing contribution while working on a new one, you should checkout
the master branch, and then create a new branch named bug fix. It is
critically important that a pull request only address one thing at a time. If it

> does not, the request will not accepted until you have separated the items you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not, the request will not be accepted until you have properly separated the items you
```

have worked on.

**Pull Request Requirements**

With large projects, organization and structure can break down fairly quickly
resulting in some bad spaghetti code. We want to avoid this as much as

> possible. For this reason, every pull request must be reviewed with patience. Follow what the tests and descriptions say to test. It is imperitive that you check to see everything compiles and functions as described by the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
possible. For this reason, every pull request must be reviewed with patience. Follow what the tests and descriptions say to test. It is imperative that you check to see everything compiles and functions as described by the PR.
```

If your request isn't accepted right away, don't take it personally. Often your code may work fine, but there are things you can add or refine. This helps keep our repository clean and will give you valuable experience participating in a code review process.

**Continuous Integration**

Continuous Integration (CI) is a tool to help auto-detect problems before they
are merged into the main respository and have a chance to cause problems. Every

> time you submit a pull request, the CI tool is run and it will assign a passing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time you submit a pull request, our CI tools run and will assign a passing
```
(there are technically multiple CI tools)

> or failing mark to the request. Currently, the CI checks consists of  build-and-test, mypy, pylint, and style. If the CI fails, you will need to fix the error in your code before the code review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or failing mark to the request. If the CI fails, you will need to fix the error in your code before the code review.
```
Just a personal preference thing, but I think making the docs as general as possible means we don't have to update them every year.

.. note::

>     At the time of this document's creation, the mypy and pylint errors are being ignored. However, you must pass the other two checks.

Reviewer: ^ comment above

If the reason for the failure isn't obvious or it's a problem in the CI check itself, seek some help.

**Content**

It's important that the content of a pull request be kept clean and small. Pull
requests should be less than 1-2k lines of code. The code changes should

> reflect one and only one topic (e.g do not include two bug fixes in one pull

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reflect one and only one topic (e.g. do not include two bug fixes in one pull
```

request). Content should generally be kept to code and documentation, binary
content, such as images, may be uploaded elsewhere.

> The description of the PR should accurately describe what the purpose of the changes are. The associated issue should link any PR or TODOs that are being addressed. A large refactor will require design documents to be written. Steps to test is a bulleted list that helps your reviewers on how to test your PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The description of the PR should accurately describe what the purpose of the changes are. The associated issue should link any PR or TODOs that are being addressed. A large refactor will require design documents to be written. Steps to test should be a bulleted list that tells your reviewers how to test your PR, and what the expected result should be.
```

Docstrings
~~~~~~~~~~
Code should be documented thoroughly. Generally speaking, you won't be here for
more than 4(ish) years. Many students will come behind you and will need to use
the code you've written.

Our docs are hosted by ReadTheDocs and are built from ReStructuredText (``.rst``) to HTML files. This build process is done by Sphinx. The Python-side API is done by a Sphinx extension named ``sphinx-autodoc``.

.. note::

    As of the time of this writing, there is no C++-side API docs yet, but in theory Sphinx + Doxygen + Breathe allow this functionality.

When writing documentation for your Python code, it is very important to follow a guide so the ``sphinx-autodoc`` can accurately create documentation which is found in the "API Reference" page.

In general, a typical ``Sphinx`` docstring has the following format:

.. code-block:: python

    """[Summary]

    :param [ParamName]: [ParamDescription], defaults to [DefaultParamVal]
    :type [ParamName]: [ParamType](, optional)
    ...
    :raises [ErrorType]: [ErrorDescription]
    ...
    :return: [ReturnDescription]
    :rtype: [ReturnType]
    """

> Each function should have documentation containing it's purpose, what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each function should have documentation containing its purpose, what
```

> parameters is takes, and what values it returns. Error handling should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters it takes, and what values it returns. Error handling should be
```

described as well: what errors will it produce, and what assumptions it makes
regarding the validation the caller performs ahead of time.

> If the overall set of code is complex and new, consider editing or adding to

Reviewer: What does this mean?

the docs.

> For more information on writing Sphinx docstrings, you can learn more `here <https://sphinx-rtd-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docstrings.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on writing Sphinx docstrings, see `this link <https://sphinx-rtd-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docstrings.html>`_.
```
I just find this wording a bit redundant

> Text file types that are not supported by doxygen or Sphinx should still be documented using what ever commenting style that format supports.

Reviewer: What does this mean? I assume it's referring to non-Python code but it's a little unclear what I should do if I have C++ code changes

**Style and Formatting**

In order to keep the code more readable, code should be formatted and styled
uniformly. This would be difficult to coordinate across multiple users, so we

> have a program that automatically restyles the code for you. Our precommit hook runs ``make pretty-lines`` which auto-formats the code.

Reviewer: actually right now pretty-lines precommit hook is a little broken, can you add that as a card

.. note::

    You may have to readd the foramtting changes, and commit again.

You can check if the style is passing by running ``make checkstyle``. If there are no errors, then you are good to go.

> If you've done all this successfully, you are now an official contributor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've done all this successfully, you are now an official contributor. Merge your PR!
```
just some extra positivity

allow you to make contributions more easily. You can view an overall diagram of
how data moves between team members and GitHub.

.. figure:: https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/small-team-flow.png
   :width: 80%
   :align: center
   :alt: Multiple developer Git workflow

   Multiple developer Git workflow

Clone the repository from the link in the master section of the doc. You now have a copy of your repository's master branch available to you. When
you have an idea of what you'd like to contribute, create a new branch before
starting work.

Your new branch contains a copy of the content of master. Make your additions
and edits now, they will only affect the new branch. When done add
and commit the files.

You now have a branch with your contribution, but you haven't contributed until
the code makes it into the main repository. This involves several steps. First,
any changes others have made in the team's repository need to be merged into
your code.

.. tip::

    If the work done on the branch stretches over a long period, it is good practice to frequently merge the master branch into your personal branch.

> If there are any conflics Git can't resolve automatically, it is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there are any conflicts that Git can't resolve automatically, it is
```

your job to `resolve <https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-from-the-command-line>`_ those errors. By merging changes into your contribution, rather than the other way around, you ensure the act of bringing your code into the team's repository will go smoothly. This helps when another member of the team reviews your code as well.

Now that you have a merged branch, you should push the branch to your GitHub.
From GitHub, you can make a `pull request <https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/>`_ from your repository against the team's repository.

.. note::

>     A link to a edit a pull request is also automatically generated when the branch is pushed in the command line. You can use this link to create the pull request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    A link to a edit a pull request is also automatically generated when the branch is pushed via the command line. You can use this link to create the pull request.
```

Pull Requests (PR)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Pull requests are how we are able to review each others changes to the master branch. It helps you communicate your changes to ``ros2``. You can choose to create a pull request that is ready for review or draft a pull request. Draft PRs must be marked as "ready for review" before they can be merged into the master branch.

Once your PR is ready for review, assign an older team member to review the PR. This will notify them that you are ready to have your contribution reviewed. Requirements for pull request standards are listed in several sections below. The team member may ask that you fix or touch up some things before the request is accepted. This is normal and common. Once the pull request meets standards, the older member will approve it, and your changes can be merged (provided they pass the CI checks, which are explained below).

Keep in mind, you can have several branches at once. If you need to fix a bug
for an existing contribution while working on a new one, you should checkout
the master branch, and then create a new branch named bug fix. It is

> critically important that a pull request only addresses one thing at a time. If it does not, the request will not be accepted until you have properly separated the items you have worked on.

Reviewer 2: If you want to enforce this, updating out PR templates would help with that. [here ](https://github.com/UBC-Thunderbots/Software/blob/master/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md)is a nice example of a template from Thunderbots

Reviewer 2: They haven't been updated in 2 years, so I think it is time to refresh them.

In general, a typical ``Sphinx`` docstring has the following format:

.. code-block:: python

    """[Summary]

    :param [ParamName]: [ParamDescription], defaults to [DefaultParamVal]
    :type [ParamName]: [ParamType](, optional)
    ...
    :raises [ErrorType]: [ErrorDescription]
    ...
    :return: [ReturnDescription]
    :rtype: [ReturnType]
    """

Each function should have documentation containing its purpose, what
parameters it takes, and what values it returns. Error handling should be
described as well: what errors will it produce, and what assumptions it makes
regarding the validation the caller performs ahead of time.

If the issue you are working on is a large refactor or a new concept to the codebase, consider editing or adding to the Our Stack page in our docs.

For more information on writing Sphinx docstrings, see `this link <https://sphinx-rtd-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docstrings.html>`_.

**C++**

The guide for C++ docstrings is followed by most C++ files in our codebase. Include the doctrings in the ``.hpp`` files.

The following is the docstring format:

.. code-block:: python

    """
    /**

>      * @brief [Breif Summary of Method]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * @brief [Brief Summary of Method]
```

tree.) The toctree will preserve the order given.

You can check your work by asking whoever maintains these docs (as of 2022,
Kevin Fu) to add your branch as a version on the ReadTheDocs dashboard.

.. note::

>     If you are maintaining these docs, you must install the requirements in ``docs/requirements.txt``.

Reviewer: you actually don't need to unless you're building locally with `make docs`, can you add a new section that explains local building?

to HTML files. This build process is done by Sphinx. The Python-side API is
done by a Sphinx extension named ``sphinx-autodoc``. As of the time of this
writing, there is no C++-side API docs yet, but in theory Sphinx + Doxygen +
Breathe allow this functionality.

When you edit documentation, you only need to edit the ``.rst`` files in
docs/source/ and Sphinx will do the rest. If you add a new page, put it in the
``docs/source/`` folder, and make sure it's a valid ``.rst`` file. Then link to
it in the toctree in ``docs/source/index.rst``. (Toctree = table of contents
tree.) The toctree will preserve the order given.

You can check your work by building locally or asking whoever maintains these docs (as of 2022, Kevin Fu) to add your branch as a version on the ReadTheDocs dashboard.

**Local Building**

> Locally building the docs is a troublesome process to check your branch's changes. Unless you are the person who maintains the docs, it is not worth the trouble. However, this section explains how to locally build our docs.

Reviewer: this is a little lengthy, you could sum it up as
```suggestion
This section explains how to locally build our docs. Locally building the docs is not worth the trouble unless you don't have access to the RTD dashboard and whoever does can't be reached. 
```

Reviewer: I would also move the section below on building via RTD dashboard above this, so people read that first

> You must install all of the dependencies in ``docs/requirements.txt`` file. After doing so, change directories to the ``docs`` folder in our code base and ``make html``. This will create multiple build files that should NOT be commited to your branch nor ``ros2``.

Reviewer: this can be done with 
`python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`

FYI

.. note::

>     DO NOT COMMIT THE BUILD FILES GENERATED WHEN LOCALLY BUILDING!

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't the .gitignore take care of this?

This will generate the docs with the changes made from your branch. When commiting to your branch, make sure to exclude the build files.

> **Branch Version**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Building via RTD**
```

> The dcoumentation maintainer should go to the webpage, activate a version that points to the new doc development branch, and build that version, then give you the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The documentation maintainer should go to the ReadTheDocs dashboard for our repo, activate the version that points to the new doc development branch, then give you the link once it builds.
```
